---
layout: post
title: Universal Design for Learning
permalink: /udl/
---

###Representation

* Students with ADHD can lack organizational skills; providing Russ with review sessions and study sheets can help him manage information more effectively (Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder).

* If Russ is enamored with experiments, then add components to instruction that make it have the qualities of an experiment.  For example, asking Russ to form a hypothesis on how vocabulary words he can learn daily and let him track the results. 

* Providing options for comprehension can be a way to grab Russ’ attention by providing background information, highlighting big ideas, and plentiful visualizations to accompany instruction ([UDL Guidelines][resources]).   

###Action and expression

* Allowing Russ to define his own goals and even allowing him to define the topic or question for an assignment can increase engagement.  By giving Russ multiple means to choose what he is learning, the UDL guideline of providing options for executive functions is satisfied (UDL Guidelines).

* Russ enjoys one-on-one communication with adults and struggles to work well with other students.  While it may be tempting to focus on group activities to improve his pragmatic communication skills and develop social skills with his peers, it is important to allow avenues in which he is comfortable communicating.  One-on-one time with a special education educator in an inclusion class or developing social skills with a school councilor.

* Russ has an interest in mechanics and working with his hands.  Giving him options to build dioramas or things for assignments could be engaging as well as reduce his need to act out physically.

###Engagement

* Concept-Oriented Reading Instruction, as implemented as a Tier 3 Interventions, was shown to be successful for Russ and also embodies UDL principles.  Russ shows enthusiasm towards science and performs well in the subject, so the idea of using science to engage him with reading comprehension is logical.  This tactic could also be used to engage Russ in math by incorporating math skills into experiments for Russ to perform.

* Russ can be very disruptive with his need for the attention of his teacher.  Even though it might seem to be caving to his bad behavior, providing feedback and encouragement will improve Russ' belief in his abilities.

[resources]: {{ "/resources" | prepend: site.baseurl }}