---
layout: post
title: Ethical Principles (CEC)
permalink: /ethics/
---

>A.  Maintaining challenging expectations for individuals with exceptionalities to develop the highest possible learning outcomes and quality of life potential in ways that respect their dignity, culture, language, and background.

>B.  Maintaining a high level of professional competence and integrity and exercising professional judgment to benefit individuals with exceptionalities and their families.

>C.  Promoting meaningful and inclusive participation of individuals with exceptionalities in their schools and communities.

>D.  Practicing collegially with others who are providing services to individuals with exceptionalities.

>E.  Developing relationships with families based on mutual respect and actively involving families and individuals with exceptionalities in educational decision making.

>F.  Using evidence, instructional data, research, and professional knowledge to inform practice.

>G.  Protecting and supporting the physical and psychological safety of individuals with exceptionalities.

>H.  Neither engaging in nor tolerating any practice that harms individuals with exceptionalities.

>I.  Practicing within the professional ethics, standards, and policies of CEC; upholding laws, regulations, and policies that influence professional practice; and advocating improvements in laws, regulations, and policies.

>J.  Advocating for professional conditions and resources that will improve learning outcomes of individuals with exceptionalities.

>K.  Engaging in the improvement of the profession through active participation in professional organizations.

>L.  Participating in the growth and dissemination of professional knowledge and skills.

[resources]: {{ "/resources" | prepend: site.baseurl }}